# pst-art-led – A PostScript LED Display

## Metadata

| Field Name     | Value                                                        |
| :------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------- |
| Package Name   | pst-art-led                                                  |
| Version Number | 1.0.0                                                        |
| Release Date   | 2026/06/26                                                   |
| Package File   | pst-art-led.sty                                              |
| Description    | A PostScript TeX Art Package for Generating LED Displays     |
| Topics         | LaTeX, PostScript, PSTricks, Graphics, Decorations, Circuits |
| Dependencies   | xcolor, pstricks, pst-xkey                                   |
| License Type   | LaTeX Project Public License v1.3c                           |
| Author Name    | Amit M. Manthanwar                                           |
| Maintainer     | Amit M. Manthanwar                                           |
| Copyright      | 2025 Amit M. Manthanwar                                      |
| Contact Email  | <info@desiign.in>                                            |
| Repository     | github.com/manthanwar/pst-art/pst-art-led                    |

## Abstract

Breakthroughs in electronics and innovations in circuitry are driving the AI revolution, ushering in a new era of the information age. However, creating high-quality technical drawings, circuit designs, and also in general the pixel art has historically been challenging, still remains difficult. Traditional methods of embedding static graphics result in large file sizes and reduce resolution, often obscuring fine or critical details. This new pst-art-led package published on [CTAN](https://ctan.org/pkg/pst-art-led) and [GitHub](https://github.com/manthanwar/pst-art/tree/main/pst-art-led) eliminates these issues by generating graphics natively in LaTeX, guaranteeing exceptional quality while keeping file sizes to a minimum.

## Introduction

An LED 5 × 7 dot matrix is a rectangular grid of 35 light-emitting diodes arranged in 5 columns and 7 rows. This pstricks-based graphic package converts the input text string and maps character data into precise column and row signals to lit the led using simple option passed to the commands. It bridges the gap between retro aesthetic design and professional document typesetting. It allows users to programmatically generate scalable, clean matrix-style graphics, such as custom alphanumeric characters or pixel art, without relying on external image editors. It integrates pixel or matrix-style graphics natively into standard documents, making it ideal for technical documentation, science tutorials, or retro-computing projects.

## Files Included

You should find the following files:

* README.md (this file)
* pst-art.cls       --- Souce class file to produce document
* pst-art-led.doc   --- Introduction and Usage as input for dtx file
* pst-art-led.dtx   --- Documented tex file
* pst-art-led.ins   --- Installer script file
* pst-art-led.tex   --- Source document file
* pst-art-led-o.sty --- Source style file - originally commented
* pst-art-led.pdf   --- PDF version of document generated by latex -> dvips -> ps2pdf

## Installation

### With TeX Live / MiKTeX

#### Automated Installation

Open your terminal or command prompt and run:

```bash
tlmgr install pst-art-led
```

#### Manual Installation

1. Download the files `pst-art-led.sty` and `pst-art-led.pdf`.
2. Move `pst-art-led.sty` to your local LaTeX directory:
   `texmf-local/tex/latex/pst-art-led/`
3. Update your TeX file database by running `texhash` (or `mktexlsr`).

### Using dtx and ins files

You can unpack the pst-art-led.sty from pst-art-led.dtx documented latex and pst-art-led.ins install script file by running:

```bash
latex pst-art-led.ins
```

## Usage

To use this package, add the following to the preamble of your document:

```latex
\documentclass{article}
\usepackage{pst-art-led}

\begin{document}

This is inline character A lit by \psLedDisplay[ledWidth=10]

\psset{unit=1mm,fillstyle=solid,linestyle=none}%
\psset{ledColorOn=yellow,ledWidth=8,ledDistance=0}%

\rput(0,-8mm){\psLedDisplay{Volt ~ : ~ 0123 V}}

\end{document}
```

## Compilation

PSTricks generates PostScript code, which standard pdflatex or lualatex compilers cannot process directly. You typically use the following workflow:

* The DVI -> PS -> PDF chain: Compile your document using the latex command, followed by dvips, and finally ps2pdf (e.g., latex file.tex && dvips file.dvi && ps2pdf file.ps).

## Documentation

Full documentation with all configuration options and examples can be found in `pst-art-led.pdf`.

## Issues and Contributions

For bug reports, feature requests, or to view the source code, please visit the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/manthanwar/pst-art).

## License

This package is released under the [LaTeX Project Public License](https://latex-project.org) v1.3c or later.

Amit M. Manthanwar
26 June 2026
